README.md, before:

[![Stand With Ukraine](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/vshymanskyy/StandWithUkraine/main/banner2-direct.svg)](https://stand-with-ukraine.pp.ua)

# ConnectyCube Flutter Call Kit plugin

A Flutter plugin for displaying call screen when the app is in the background or terminated.
It provides a complex solution for implementation the background calls feature in your app including 
getting token and displaying the Incoming call screen.

## Supported platforms

- Android
- iOS

## Features

- access device token (FCM for Android and VoIP for iOS)
- notifying the app about token refreshing via callback
- displaying the Incoming call screen when push notification was delivered on the device
- notifying the app about user action performed on the Incoming call screen (accept, reject, mute (for iOS))
- providing the methods for manual managing of the Incoming screen including the manual showing the Incoming call screen
- getting the data about the current call during the call session
- some customizations according to your app needs (ringtone, icon, accent color(for Android))


<kbd><img alt="Flutter P2P Calls code sample, incoming call in background Android" src="https://developers.connectycube.com/docs/_images/code_samples/flutter/background_call_android.png" height="440" /></kbd> 
<kbd><img alt="Flutter P2P Calls code sample, incoming call locked Android" src="https://developers.connectycube.com/docs/_images/code_samples/flutter/background_call_android_locked.png" height="440" /></kbd> 
<kbd><img alt="Flutter P2P Calls code sample, incoming call in background iOS" src="https://developers.connectycube.com/docs/_images/code_samples/flutter/background_call_ios.PNG" height="440" /></kbd>
<kbd><img alt="Flutter P2P Calls code sample, incoming call locked iOS" src="https://developers.connectycube.com/docs/_images/code_samples/flutter/background_call_ios_locked.PNG" height="440" /></kbd>

## Configure your project

This plugin doesn't require complicated configs, just [connect it](https://pub.dev/packages/connectycube_flutter_call_kit/install) 
as usual flutter plugin to your app and do the next simple actions:

### Prepare Android

- add the Google services config file `google-services.json` by path `your_app/android/app/`
- add next string at the end of your **build.gradle** file by path `your_app/android/app/build.gradle`:
```groovy
apply plugin: 'com.google.gms.google-services'
```

If your app is targeted to `targetSdkVersion 31` and above and you need to start the app by clicking the `Accept` 
button you should request the permission `SYSTEM_ALERT_WINDOW` from the user first. For it, you can use 
the plugin [`permission_handler`](https://pub.dev/packages/permission_handler).

If your app is targeted to `targetSdkVersion 33` and above you should request the permission 
`POST_NOTIFICATIONS` from the user first.

### Prepare iOS

- add next strings to your **Info.plist** file by path `your_app/ios/Runner/Info.plist`:
```
<key>UIBackgroundModes</key>
<array>
    <string>remote-notification</string>
    <string>voip</string>
</array>
```

## API and callbacks
### Get token
The plugin returns the VoIP token for the iOS platform and the FCM token for the Android platform.

Get token from the system:

```dart
ConnectycubeFlutterCallKit.getToken().then((token) {
    // use received token for subscription on push notifications on your server
});
```

Listen to the refresh token event:
```dart
ConnectycubeFlutterCallKit.onTokenRefreshed = (token) {
    // use refreshed token for resubscription on your server
};
```
### Customize the plugin
We added a helpful method for customization the plugin according to your needs. At this moment you 
can customize the ringtone, application icon, noitification small icon (Android only) 
and notification accent color (Android only). Use the next method for it:

```dart
ConnectycubeFlutterCallKit.instance.updateConfig(
  ringtone: 'custom_ringtone', 
  icon: Platform.isAndroid ? 'default_avatar' : 'CallKitIcon', // is used as an avatar placeholder for Android and as the app icon for iOS
  color: '#07711e');
```

#### [Android only] Notification icon customisation
You can set different icons for Audion and Video calls, add suitable resources to your
`android/app/src/main/AndroidManifest.xml` to the `application` section for it:
```xml
<meta-data
    android:name="com.connectycube.flutter.connectycube_flutter_call_kit.audio_call_notification_icon"
    android:resource="@drawable/ic_notification_audio_call" />

<meta-data
    android:name="com.connectycube.flutter.connectycube_flutter_call_kit.video_call_notification_icon"
    android:resource="@drawable/ic_notification_video_call" />
```

If you don't need it, add only the default notification icon:
```xml
<meta-data
    android:name="com.connectycube.flutter.connectycube_flutter_call_kit.app_notification_icon"
    android:resource="@drawable/ic_notification" />
```

### Show Incoming call notification

```dart
P2PCallSession incomingCall; // the call received somewhere

CallEvent callEvent = CallEvent(
    sessionId: incomingCall.sessionId,
    callType: incomingCall.callType,
    callerId: incomingCall.callerId,
    callerName: 'Caller Name',
    opponentsIds: incomingCall.opponentsIds,
    callPhoto: 'https://i.imgur.com/KwrDil8b.jpg',
    userInfo: {'customParameter1': 'value1'});
ConnectycubeFlutterCallKit.showCallNotification(callEvent);
```

### Listen to the user action from the Incoming call screen:

#### Listen in the foreground

Add the listeners during initialization of the plugin:

```dart
ConnectycubeFlutterCallKit.instance.init(
    onCallAccepted: _onCallAccepted,
    onCallRejected: _onCallRejected,
);

Future<void> _onCallAccepted(CallEvent callEvent) async {
    // the call was accepted
}

Future<void> _onCallRejected(CallEvent callEvent) async {
    // the call was rejected
}
```

#### Listen in the background or terminated state (Android only):

```dart
ConnectycubeFlutterCallKit.onCallRejectedWhenTerminated = onCallRejectedWhenTerminated;
ConnectycubeFlutterCallKit.onCallAcceptedWhenTerminated = onCallAcceptedWhenTerminated;
```

!> Attention: the functions `onCallRejectedWhenTerminated` and `onCallAcceptedWhenTerminated` must 
be a top-level functions and cannot be anonymous. Mark these callbacks with the `@pragma('vm:entry-point')` 
annotation to allow using them from the native code.

#### Listen for the actions performed on the CallKit screen (iOS only):

##### Listening for the muting/unmuting the call

```dart
ConnectycubeFlutterCallKit.onCallMuted = onCallMuted;

Future<void> onCallMuted(bool mute, String uuid) async {
  // [mute] - `true` - the call was muted on the CallKit screen, `false` - the call was unmuted
  // [uuid] - the id of the muted/unmuted call
}
```

### Get the call state

```dart
var callState = await ConnectycubeFlutterCallKit.getCallState(sessionId: sessionId);
```

### Get the call data
```dart
ConnectycubeFlutterCallKit.getCallData(sessionId: sessionId).then((callData) {
      
});
```

### Get the id of the latest call

It is helpful for some cases to know the id of the last received call. You can get it via:

```dart
var sessionId = await ConnectycubeFlutterCallKit.getLastCallId();
```
Then you can get the state of this call using `getCallState`.

### Notify the plugin about user actions concerning the call on the Flutter app side

For dismissing the Incoming call screen (or the Call Kit for iOS) you should notify the plugin about 
these events.
Use next functions for it:

```dart
ConnectycubeFlutterCallKit.reportCallAccepted(sessionId: uuid);
ConnectycubeFlutterCallKit.reportCallEnded(sessionId: uuid);
```

Notifying the plugin about muting/unmuting the call (iOS only):
```dart
var muted = true; // set `true` if the call was muted or `false` if the call was unmuted

ConnectycubeFlutterCallKit.reportCallMuted(sessionId: uuid, muted: muted);
```

### Clear call data
After finishing the call you can clear all data on the plugin side related to this call, call the 
next code for it

```dart
await ConnectycubeFlutterCallKit.clearCallData(sessionId: sessionId);
```

### Manage the app visibility on the lock screen (Android only)

In case you need to show your app after accepting the call from the lock screen you can do it using 
the method
```dart
ConnectycubeFlutterCallKit.setOnLockScreenVisibility(isVisible: true);
```

After finishing that call you should hide your app under the lock screen, do it via
```dart
ConnectycubeFlutterCallKit.setOnLockScreenVisibility(isVisible: false);
```

## Show Incoming call screen by push notification
In case you want to display the Incoming call screen automatically by push notification you can do 
it easily. For it, the caller should send the push notification to all call members. This push notification should contain some required parameters. If you use the [Connectycube Flutter SDK](https://pub.dev/packages/connectycube_sdk), you can do it using the next code:

```dart
CreateEventParams params = CreateEventParams();
params.parameters = {
    'message': "Incoming ${currentCall.callType == CallType.VIDEO_CALL ? "Video" : "Audio"} call",
    'call_type': currentCall.callType,
    'session_id': currentCall.sessionId,
    'caller_id': currentCall.callerId,
    'caller_name': callerName,
    'call_opponents': currentCall.opponentsIds.join(','),
    'photo_url': 'https://i.imgur.com/KwrDil8b.jpg'
    'signal_type': 'startCall',
    'ios_voip': 1,
 };

params.notificationType = NotificationType.PUSH;
params.environment = CubeEnvironment.DEVELOPMENT; // not important
params.usersIds = currentCall.opponentsIds.toList();

createEvent(params.getEventForRequest()).then((cubeEvent) {
      // event was created
}).catchError((error) {
      // something went wrong during event creation
});
```

For hiding the Incoming call screen via push notification use a similar request but with a 
different `signal_type`, it can be `'endCall'` or `'rejectCall'`.

You can check how this plugin works in our [P2P Calls code sample](https://github.com/ConnectyCube/connectycube-flutter-samples/tree/master/p2p_call_sample).

Commit message:

- add api for managing the USE_FULL_SCREEN_INTENT permission;

README.md, after:

[![Stand With Ukraine](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/vshymanskyy/StandWithUkraine/main/banner2-direct.svg)](https://stand-with-ukraine.pp.ua)

# ConnectyCube Flutter Call Kit plugin

A Flutter plugin for displaying call screen when the app is in the background or terminated.
It provides a complex solution for implementation the background calls feature in your app including 
getting token and displaying the Incoming call screen.

## Supported platforms

- Android
- iOS

## Features

- access device token (FCM for Android and VoIP for iOS)
- notifying the app about token refreshing via callback
- displaying the Incoming call screen when push notification was delivered on the device
- notifying the app about user action performed on the Incoming call screen (accept, reject, mute (for iOS))
- providing the methods for manual managing of the Incoming screen including the manual showing the Incoming call screen
- getting the data about the current call during the call session
- some customizations according to your app needs (ringtone, app icon, accent color(for Android))
- checking and changing the access to the `Manifest.permission.USE_FULL_SCREEN_INTENT` permission (for Android 14 and above)


<kbd><img alt="Flutter P2P Calls code sample, incoming call in background Android" src="https://developers.connectycube.com/docs/_images/code_samples/flutter/background_call_android.png" height="440" /></kbd> 
<kbd><img alt="Flutter P2P Calls code sample, incoming call locked Android" src="https://developers.connectycube.com/docs/_images/code_samples/flutter/background_call_android_locked.png" height="440" /></kbd> 
<kbd><img alt="Flutter P2P Calls code sample, incoming call in background iOS" src="https://developers.connectycube.com/docs/_images/code_samples/flutter/background_call_ios.PNG" height="440" /></kbd>
<kbd><img alt="Flutter P2P Calls code sample, incoming call locked iOS" src="https://developers.connectycube.com/docs/_images/code_samples/flutter/background_call_ios_locked.PNG" height="440" /></kbd>

## Configure your project

This plugin doesn't require complicated configs, just [connect it](https://pub.dev/packages/connectycube_flutter_call_kit/install) 
as usual flutter plugin to your app and do the next simple actions:

### Prepare Android

- add the Google services config file `google-services.json` by path `your_app/android/app/`
- add next string at the end of your **build.gradle** file by path `your_app/android/app/build.gradle`:
```groovy
apply plugin: 'com.google.gms.google-services'
```

If your app is targeted to `targetSdkVersion 31` and above and you need to start the app by clicking the `Accept` 
button you should request the permission `SYSTEM_ALERT_WINDOW` from the user first. For it, you can use 
the plugin [`permission_handler`](https://pub.dev/packages/permission_handler).

If your app is targeted to `targetSdkVersion 33` and above you should request the permission 
`POST_NOTIFICATIONS` from the user first.

### Prepare iOS

- add next strings to your **Info.plist** file by path `your_app/ios/Runner/Info.plist`:
```
<key>UIBackgroundModes</key>
<array>
    <string>remote-notification</string>
    <string>voip</string>
</array>
```

## API and callbacks
### Get token
The plugin returns the VoIP token for the iOS platform and the FCM token for the Android platform.

Get token from the system:

```dart
ConnectycubeFlutterCallKit.getToken().then((token) {
    // use received token for subscription on push notifications on your server
});
```

Listen to the refresh token event:
```dart
ConnectycubeFlutterCallKit.onTokenRefreshed = (token) {
    // use refreshed token for resubscription on your server
};
```
### Customize the plugin
We added a helpful method for customization the plugin according to your needs. At this moment you 
can customize the ringtone, application icon, noitification small icon (Android only) 
and notification accent color (Android only). Use the next method for it:

```dart
ConnectycubeFlutterCallKit.instance.updateConfig(
  ringtone: 'custom_ringtone', 
  icon: Platform.isAndroid ? 'default_avatar' : 'CallKitIcon', // is used as an avatar placeholder for Android and as the app icon for iOS
  color: '#07711e');
```

#### [Android only] Notification icon customisation
You can set different icons for Audion and Video calls, add suitable resources to your
`android/app/src/main/AndroidManifest.xml` to the `application` section for it:
```xml
<meta-data
    android:name="com.connectycube.flutter.connectycube_flutter_call_kit.audio_call_notification_icon"
    android:resource="@drawable/ic_notification_audio_call" />

<meta-data
    android:name="com.connectycube.flutter.connectycube_flutter_call_kit.video_call_notification_icon"
    android:resource="@drawable/ic_notification_video_call" />
```

If you don't need it, add only the default notification icon:
```xml
<meta-data
    android:name="com.connectycube.flutter.connectycube_flutter_call_kit.app_notification_icon"
    android:resource="@drawable/ic_notification" />
```

### Show Incoming call notification

```dart
P2PCallSession incomingCall; // the call received somewhere

CallEvent callEvent = CallEvent(
    sessionId: incomingCall.sessionId,
    callType: incomingCall.callType,
    callerId: incomingCall.callerId,
    callerName: 'Caller Name',
    opponentsIds: incomingCall.opponentsIds,
    callPhoto: 'https://i.imgur.com/KwrDil8b.jpg',
    userInfo: {'customParameter1': 'value1'});
ConnectycubeFlutterCallKit.showCallNotification(callEvent);
```

### Listen to the user action from the Incoming call screen:

#### Listen in the foreground

Add the listeners during initialization of the plugin:

```dart
ConnectycubeFlutterCallKit.instance.init(
    onCallAccepted: _onCallAccepted,
    onCallRejected: _onCallRejected,
);

Future<void> _onCallAccepted(CallEvent callEvent) async {
    // the call was accepted
}

Future<void> _onCallRejected(CallEvent callEvent) async {
    // the call was rejected
}
```

#### Listen in the background or terminated state (Android only):

```dart
ConnectycubeFlutterCallKit.onCallRejectedWhenTerminated = onCallRejectedWhenTerminated;
ConnectycubeFlutterCallKit.onCallAcceptedWhenTerminated = onCallAcceptedWhenTerminated;
```

!> Attention: the functions `onCallRejectedWhenTerminated` and `onCallAcceptedWhenTerminated` must 
be a top-level functions and cannot be anonymous. Mark these callbacks with the `@pragma('vm:entry-point')` 
annotation to allow using them from the native code.

#### Listen for the actions performed on the CallKit screen (iOS only):

##### Listening for the muting/unmuting the call

```dart
ConnectycubeFlutterCallKit.onCallMuted = onCallMuted;

Future<void> onCallMuted(bool mute, String uuid) async {
  // [mute] - `true` - the call was muted on the CallKit screen, `false` - the call was unmuted
  // [uuid] - the id of the muted/unmuted call
}
```

### Get the call state

```dart
var callState = await ConnectycubeFlutterCallKit.getCallState(sessionId: sessionId);
```

### Get the call data
```dart
ConnectycubeFlutterCallKit.getCallData(sessionId: sessionId).then((callData) {
      
});
```

### Get the id of the latest call

It is helpful for some cases to know the id of the last received call. You can get it via:

```dart
var sessionId = await ConnectycubeFlutterCallKit.getLastCallId();
```
Then you can get the state of this call using `getCallState`.

### Notify the plugin about user actions concerning the call on the Flutter app side

For dismissing the Incoming call screen (or the Call Kit for iOS) you should notify the plugin about 
these events.
Use next functions for it:

```dart
ConnectycubeFlutterCallKit.reportCallAccepted(sessionId: uuid);
ConnectycubeFlutterCallKit.reportCallEnded(sessionId: uuid);
```

Notifying the plugin about muting/unmuting the call (iOS only):
```dart
var muted = true; // set `true` if the call was muted or `false` if the call was unmuted

ConnectycubeFlutterCallKit.reportCallMuted(sessionId: uuid, muted: muted);
```

### Clear call data
After finishing the call you can clear all data on the plugin side related to this call, call the 
next code for it

```dart
await ConnectycubeFlutterCallKit.clearCallData(sessionId: sessionId);
```

### Manage the app visibility on the lock screen (Android only)

In case you need to show your app after accepting the call from the lock screen you can do it using 
the method
```dart
ConnectycubeFlutterCallKit.setOnLockScreenVisibility(isVisible: true);
```

After finishing that call you should hide your app under the lock screen, do it via
```dart
ConnectycubeFlutterCallKit.setOnLockScreenVisibility(isVisible: false);
```

### Check the permission `Manifest.permission.USE_FULL_SCREEN_INTENT` state (Android 14 and above)

```dart
var canUseFullScreenIntent = await ConnectycubeFlutterCallKit.canUseFullScreenIntent();
```

### Request the access to the `Manifest.permission.USE_FULL_SCREEN_INTENT` permission (Android 14 and above)

```dart
ConnectycubeFlutterCallKit.provideFullScreenIntentAccess();
```
The function moves the user to the specific setting for your app where you can grant or deny this 
permission for your app.

## Show Incoming call screen by push notification
In case you want to display the Incoming call screen automatically by push notification you can do 
it easily. For it, the caller should send the push notification to all call members. This push notification should contain some required parameters. If you use the [Connectycube Flutter SDK](https://pub.dev/packages/connectycube_sdk), you can do it using the next code:

```dart
CreateEventParams params = CreateEventParams();
params.parameters = {
    'message': "Incoming ${currentCall.callType == CallType.VIDEO_CALL ? "Video" : "Audio"} call",
    'call_type': currentCall.callType,
    'session_id': currentCall.sessionId,
    'caller_id': currentCall.callerId,
    'caller_name': callerName,
    'call_opponents': currentCall.opponentsIds.join(','),
    'photo_url': 'https://i.imgur.com/KwrDil8b.jpg'
    'signal_type': 'startCall',
    'ios_voip': 1,
 };

params.notificationType = NotificationType.PUSH;
params.environment = CubeEnvironment.DEVELOPMENT; // not important
params.usersIds = currentCall.opponentsIds.toList();

createEvent(params.getEventForRequest()).then((cubeEvent) {
      // event was created
}).catchError((error) {
      // something went wrong during event creation
});
```

For hiding the Incoming call screen via push notification use a similar request but with a 
different `signal_type`, it can be `'endCall'` or `'rejectCall'`.

## Android 14 features
Starting from Android `Build.VERSION_CODES.UPSIDE_DOWN_CAKE`, apps may not have permission to use 
`Manifest.permission.USE_FULL_SCREEN_INTENT`. If permission is denied, the call notification will 
show up as an expanded heads up notification on lockscreen. The plugin provides the API for checking 
the access state and moves to the System setting for enabling it. Please follow the next code 
snippet to manage it:
```dart
var canUseFullScreenIntent = await ConnectycubeFlutterCallKit.canUseFullScreenIntent();

if (!canUseFullScreenIntent){
  ConnectycubeFlutterCallKit.provideFullScreenIntentAccess();
}
```

You can check how this plugin works in our [P2P Calls code sample](https://github.com/ConnectyCube/connectycube-flutter-samples/tree/master/p2p_call_sample).
